My uncle keeps to honest systems: By falling ill yet not in jest,

He made me love him with insistence And couldn't find some better test.

Well, his example gives a lesson; But, goodness me, it's quite distressing

To sit with him all day and night, Not stepping out of his sight.

And what insidiousness you show, When you amuse a man half dead

Arrange the pillows in bed Then give him drugs in sadness, though

You sigh not speaking of your will: When will the devil come for him!'

The young scapegrace was so deeming, When he by post-chaise in dust

Was shaking. Due to Zues he's being The heir of all relatives in trust.

Ruslan's, Lyudmila's friends!

Somehow, Without prefaces, just now, For hero of my book Let me attract attentive look:

Onegin, friend of mine for years, Was born on Neva-river's banks.

May be, you rose from the clans In those places, or have dears,

Somewhere you could look at me, But harmful is the North for me,

His father served for many years, And fell in debt, such big and vast,

That, giving balls three times a year, He squandered all he had at last.

But Eugene's fate for him was fair: At first by Madame he was cared,

But then a frenchman took her place.

The boy was frisky but with grace.

Monsieur l'Abbe, a Frenchman mere, To give the boy some chance to rest,

Was teaching him with ready jest, With morals never was severe,

For pranks reproved with gentle talks, To Summer Garden took for walks.

Insurgent youth is not yet endless. When Eugene was to change his sort

In times of hopes, tender sadness, Monsieur was driven from the court.

Onegin's now free from care. In fashion has he cut his hair,

Like London dandy, well arrayed, First coming to the world he made.

His French was so perfect now, That he could chat, as well as write,

He was in dances quick and light, Without tension he could bow:

What more you want?

The world said: why, He is a clever, pretty guy.

We all to learn had little go And anyhow something got,

With education, as you know, We all can shine, and bless it God!

Onegin was in eyes of people, (Which were in judgements strict, not feeble,)

A pedant but of science man. He had a happy talent then:

He was enabled, slightly rushing, To speak of anything at once,

As real expert does by chance. He could be silent in discussion,

His epigram's unwaited file Could make all pretty ladies smile.

But Latin's not in fashion now. To tell the truth but frank enough,

He knew the Latin anyhow: To talk about epigraf,

Of Jouvenale to talk much better, To end with vale own letter,

Remembered, though with mistakes, Two little verses of Enaid's.

He never wished to rummage quickly In chronological thick dust

Of writings of the life in past, But ancient anecdotes deeply -

From Romul to the present day - In depth of mind he kept away.

Not having any higher passion To rhymes to dedicate his life,

Iambus he, at frank confession, From trochee couldn't tell meanwhile.

Feocrite, Gomer were reproved, Yet Adam Smith was well approved,

In house-keeping he was best Arid any problems put to test:

Of how state itself enriches, And how lives, which way and why

Without gold can revive While simple product is its richness:

His father didn't understand Arid put in pledge the whole land,

To tell you all, what he had known, I haven't any time at all.

His genius was unique, alone, He knew of something best of all,

Which was for him from time of childhood Like work and torment, was delightful,

Which pressed his spirits all the way And kept his laziness for day, -

It was the art of tender passion, By Nazon brightly glorified.

But Nazon was by world denied And suffered past rebellious session:

Moldavia, that's far away From Italy, was end of way.